docs/pages/getting-started.md, before:

---
title: Getting Started
---

Welcome to Cardinal! As mentioned on the homepage, Cardinal is designed to be an open source Cisco access point controller. Cardinal is built on Python and uses `paramiko` to handle the configuration of access points via SSH. In order to use Cardinal, your Cisco AP's must be in autonomous mode (K9W7 IOS) and have SSH enabled.

The foundation of Cardinal is built on three systems (or pillars):

* MySQL
* Python3
* Nginx

Being that Cardinal is a WSGI application, the web interface requires a WSGI-compliant web server. Nginx is an example of a WSGI-compliant web server and for that reason, Cardinal is developed around this. Even though Nginx is used for the development of Cardinal, that doesn't mean you couldn't use another WSGI-compliant web server.

Before we begin with the installation, please make sure you have a stable Linux environment ready to go. Cardinal development is performed on Ubuntu, however, that doesn't mean you couldn't use RHEL/CentOS or another distro. As long as you're able to install Cardinal's three pillars, you should be good to go.

For this walkthrough, I'm going to install Cardinal in an Ubuntu 18.04 environment. Again, even though this is being performed on Ubuntu, you can adapt the instructions to the RHEL/CentOS equivalents. If you want to test Cardinal in a quickstart environment, please checkout the Docker project [here](https://github.com/cardinal-dev/Cardinal/tree/master/webapp/docker).

# System Requirements

Per the introduction above, Cardinal operates on three pillars:

* MySQL
* Python3
* Nginx

Development of Cardinal is currently taking place on MySQL 5.7 with Python3 (i.e. 3.5, 3.6, and 3.7) and Nginx 1.16.0.  Please make sure you install these three components and their associated dependencies before proceeding.

~~~
sudo apt install mysql-server mysql-client nginx python3-venv python3-dev libmysqlclient-dev build-essential
~~~

Most distributions have moved to Python3, so you shouldn't need to install Python3 manually. If you're system doesn't have Python3, please install it as it's required. Cardinal is tested on Python 3.5+, so installing at least Python 3.5 is highly recommended.

Once you have Nginx, MySQL, and Python3 installed, now we can proceed to install Cardinal.

# Installation

Cardinal has an install script within `bin/` called `install.sh`. Using `install.sh` will allow you to interactively input values used for the Cardinal `.ini` config. The `.ini` config file is very important for both Cardinal and scout. If you're not using `install.sh`, please make sure you fill the `.ini` file correctly and set the `CARDINALCONFIG` environment variable to point to the `.ini` file's location.

In order to better understand the Cardinal installation process, let's break down `install.sh`. The first step `install.sh` performs is gathering basic information about the environment:

~~~
echo "Welcome to the Cardinal Initial Configuration Guide!"
echo -e ""
read -p "Hello, welcome to Cardinal! What is the hostname/IP address of the database for Cardinal? " dbIP
echo -e ""
read -p "Ok, I got it. How about an username for the database? " dbUsername
echo -e ""
read -p "Great! How about a password for the database? " dbPassword
echo -e ""
read -p "Okay, now we need a name for the database. What is the database name? " dbName
echo -e ""
read -p "Okay, now we need to add a Cardinal Admin. What is the desired username for Cardinal? " cardinalUser
echo -e ""
read -p "Okay, now what is the Cardinal Admin's password? " cardinalPass
echo -e ""
read -p "Where do you want to store your MySQL database information? " dbCredDir
echo -e ""
read -p "Where is the location of the scout command directory? " commandDir
echo -e ""
read -p "What is the desired Flask key? (i.e. Securing session data) " flaskKey
~~~

Information such as the MySQL connection info (e.g. IP/hostname, username, and password), desired Cardinal username/password, scout's command directory, and the Flask session key are gathered here.

Each of the values are stored in a variable and then used later for the installation.

After we gather the needed information, we then create a system user called `cardinal`, which will run some `systemd` processes when the application is live:

~~~
# Create a system user called cardinal. The cardinal user is the user which will run our processes
sudo useradd cardinal
~~~

After creating the `cardinal` user, we then create some log files for the Cardinal UI. All of Cardinal's client transactions (e.g. Nginx/uWSGI) and scout runs will report to `cardinal.log`.
`scoutFetcher()` transactions will be reported to `fetcher.log`:

~~~
# Create a log file for Cardinal UI
rm -rf /var/log/cardinal
mkdir -p /var/log/cardinal
touch /var/log/cardinal/cardinal.log
touch /var/log/cardinal/fetcher.log
chown -R cardinal:cardinal /var/log/cardinal
~~~

After creating the Cardinal UI log file, we then create a Python3 venv for cardinal. `install.sh` creates one called `cardinal` and places it within `bin/`:

~~~
# Generate Cardinal venv
sudo python3 -m venv $cardinalBase/cardinal
sudo $cardinalBase/cardinal/bin/pip install -U pip
sudo $cardinalBase/cardinal/bin/pip install -r $cardinalBase/../requirements.txt
sudo $cardinalBase/cardinal/bin/pip install $cardinalBase/../lib/.
~~~

After creating Cardinal's Python3 venv, we then create a socket directory for uWSGI to read/write to:

~~~
# Create a socket directory for uWSGI
rm -rf /var/lib/cardinal
mkdir -p /var/lib/cardinal
chown -R cardinal:cardinal /var/lib/cardinal
~~~

After creating a Cardinal socket directory, we need to make sure `cardinal` can read the values within the `.ini` file:

~~~
# Set permissions on the cardinal.ini file
chown -R cardinal:cardinal $dbCredDir/cardinal.ini
~~~

In order for Cardinal to function, we need a MySQL database for Cardinal to read/write to. The following steps create a MySQL database, using the credentials provided from the first step. We also create a Cardinal admin account and generate an encryption key for sensitive database values:

~~~
# Create the MySQL database for Cardinal. We also want to import the SQL structure too!
mysql -u$dbUsername -p$dbPassword -e "CREATE DATABASE "$dbName""
mysql -u$dbUsername --password=$dbPassword $dbName < ../sql/cardinal.sql
mysql -u$dbUsername --password=$dbPassword mysql -e "update user set plugin='mysql_native_password' where User='root'"
mysql -u$dbUsername --password=$dbPassword mysql -e "update user set authentication_string=password('$dbPassword') where user='root'"
systemctl restart mysql

# Create a Cardinal admin
hashedPass=$(cardinal/bin/python -c 'from werkzeug.security import generate_password_hash; print(generate_password_hash("'$cardinalPass'", "sha256"))')
mysql -u$dbUsername -p$dbPassword $dbName -e "INSERT INTO users (username,password) VALUES ('$cardinalUser','$hashedPass')"

# Generate encryption key
encryptKey=$(cardinal/bin/python -c "from cryptography.fernet import Fernet; print(Fernet.generate_key().decode())")
~~~

Finally, we take the values from the first step and generate a `.ini` file:

~~~
# Create a configuration file based on user input
rm $dbCredDir/cardinal.ini
touch $dbCredDir/cardinal.ini
echo "[cardinal]" >> $dbCredDir/cardinal.ini
echo 'dbserver'=""$dbIP"" >> $dbCredDir/cardinal.ini
echo 'dbuser'=""$dbUsername"" >> $dbCredDir/cardinal.ini
echo 'dbpassword'=""$dbPassword"" >> $dbCredDir/cardinal.ini
echo 'dbname'=""$dbName"" >> $dbCredDir/cardinal.ini
echo 'commanddir'=""$commandDir"" >> $dbCredDir/cardinal.ini
echo 'flaskkey'=""$flaskKey"" >> $dbCredDir/cardinal.ini
echo 'encryptkey'=""$encryptKey"" >> $dbCredDir/cardinal.ini
echo 'commanddebug=off' >> $dbCredDir/cardinal.ini
~~~

If `install.sh` didn't error out and you have a `.ini` file in the appropriate location, congraulations! Cardinal should be configured and ready to launch!

# Nginx Configuration

Before Cardinal can launch, we need to tell Nginx how to read the uWSGI socket. In Cardinal's `conf/` directory, there's a sample Nginx configuration that we can use.

~~~
user  www-data;
worker_processes  1;

#error_log  logs/error.log;
#error_log  logs/error.log  notice;
#error_log  logs/error.log  info;

#pid        logs/nginx.pid;


events {
    worker_connections  1024;
}


http {
    include       /etc/nginx/mime.types;
    default_type  application/octet-stream;

    #log_format  main  '$remote_addr - $remote_user [$time_local] "$request" '
    #                  '$status $body_bytes_sent "$http_referer" '
    #                  '"$http_user_agent" "$http_x_forwarded_for"';

    #access_log  logs/access.log  main;

    sendfile        on;
    #tcp_nopush     on;

    #keepalive_timeout  0;
    keepalive_timeout  65;

    #gzip  on;

    server {
    listen 80;
    server_name <SERVER_NAME_HERE>;

    location / {
        include uwsgi_params;
        uwsgi_pass unix:///var/lib/cardinal/cardinal.sock;
    }
}}
~~~

# `systemd` Configuration

In order for Cardinal to start on system startup, we need to add a `systemd` service. Just like the Nginx configuration, there's a `systemd` config in the `conf/` directory as well:

~~~
[Unit]
Description=Cardinal - Open Source Cisco Access Point Controller
After=network.target

[Service]
User=cardinal
Group=www-data
WorkingDirectory=<PATH_TO_CARDINAL_WEBAPP_DIRECTORY>
Environment="PATH=<PATH_TO_CARDINAL_VIRTUALENV>:/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/games:/usr/local/games:/snap/bin"
Environment="PYTHONPATH=<PATH_TO_SCOUT_LIBRARY>"
ExecStart=<PATH_TO_CARDINAL_VIRTUALENV_UWSGI> --ini wsgi.ini --logto /var/log/cardinal/cardinal.log

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
~~~

Please make sure you fill in the preceding values correctly. Once you have completed the `systemd` configuration, please run `systemctl daemon-reload` to initialize the service.

# Additional Configuration

In order for Cardinal to function with uWSGI, please make sure that `CARDINALCONFIG` is added to the `webapp/wsgi.ini` file:

~~~
[uwsgi]
module=wsgi:Cardinal
master=true
processes=5
socket=/var/lib/cardinal/cardinal.sock
chmod-socket=660
vaccum=true
die-on-term=true
env=CARDINALCONFIG=<PATH_TO_CARDINAL_INI>
~~~

# Cross Your Fingers!

Once you have performed the preceding steps, please check to make sure all of the pillars are functioning properly:

~~~
systemctl status mysql
systemctl status nginx
~~~

Once you have verified that MySQL and Nginx are functioning properly, you can then start Cardinal:

~~~
systemctl start cardinal
~~~

# The Cardinal UI

You should be able to navigate to the Cardinal UI at `http://<CARDINAL_SERVER>`. The login screen should look like this:

![cardinalui](assets/cardinalui.png)

Please try logging in with the username/password specified when running `install.sh` or whatever entries you manually provided to MySQL.
 
You should see the following screen if you're logged in:

![cardinalui2](assets/cardinalui2.png)

Now you can start using Cardinal to manage your Cisco APs!

# Using `scoutFetcher()`

Currently, you can fetch information about your access point via the `Fetch AP Information` tile in Cardinal. If you want to run a fetch
on all of your access points, please utilize `crontab` and set the interval appropriately:

~~~
* * * * * PYTHONPATH=/home/Cardinal/bin/cardinal/lib/python3.5/site-packages/scout /home/cardinal/fetcher.sh >> /var/log/cardinal/fetcher.log
~~~

The preceding `crontab` entry will run `fetcher.sh` every minute to collect AP information. `fetcher.sh` is an example script that contains the
needed information to call `scoutFetcherForAll()`:

~~~
#!/bin/bash

cd /home/Cardinal/webapp
/home/Cardinal/bin/cardinal/bin/python -c "import cardinal; cardinal.system.cardinal_fetch.scoutFetcherForAll()"
~~~

At the present time, the operations surrounding `scoutFetcherForAll()` are being improved upon. The preceding script/crontab entry is a workaround for the time being.

Commit message:

webapp/cardinal: Implemented parallel AP group operations
Implemented multiprocessing in order to spread
AP group operations across multiple processes.

Using multiprocessing provides faster performance, as
well as the ability to centralize group functions
for use across the cardinal module.

Signed-off-by: James McClune <jmcclune@mcclunetechnologies.net>

docs/pages/getting-started.md, after:

---
title: Getting Started
---

Welcome to Cardinal! As mentioned on the homepage, Cardinal is designed to be an open source Cisco access point controller. Cardinal is built on Python and uses `paramiko` to handle the configuration of access points via SSH. In order to use Cardinal, your Cisco AP's must be in autonomous mode (K9W7 IOS) and have SSH enabled.

The foundation of Cardinal is built on three systems (or pillars):

* MySQL
* Python3
* Nginx

Being that Cardinal is a WSGI application, the web interface requires a WSGI-compliant web server. Nginx is an example of a WSGI-compliant web server and for that reason, Cardinal is developed around this. Even though Nginx is used for the development of Cardinal, that doesn't mean you couldn't use another WSGI-compliant web server.

Before we begin with the installation, please make sure you have a stable Linux environment ready to go. Cardinal development is performed on Ubuntu, however, that doesn't mean you couldn't use RHEL/CentOS or another distro. As long as you're able to install Cardinal's three pillars, you should be good to go.

For this walkthrough, I'm going to install Cardinal in an Ubuntu 18.04 environment. Again, even though this is being performed on Ubuntu, you can adapt the instructions to the RHEL/CentOS equivalents. If you want to test Cardinal in a quickstart environment, please checkout the Docker project [here](https://github.com/cardinal-dev/Cardinal/tree/master/webapp/docker).

# System Requirements

Per the introduction above, Cardinal operates on three pillars:

* MySQL
* Python3
* Nginx

Development of Cardinal is currently taking place on MySQL 5.7 with Python3 (i.e. 3.5, 3.6, and 3.7) and Nginx 1.16.0.  Please make sure you install these three components and their associated dependencies before proceeding.

~~~
sudo apt install mysql-server mysql-client nginx python3-venv python3-dev libmysqlclient-dev build-essential
~~~

Most distributions have moved to Python3, so you shouldn't need to install Python3 manually. If you're system doesn't have Python3, please install it as it's required. Cardinal is tested on Python 3.5+, so installing at least Python 3.5 is highly recommended.

Once you have Nginx, MySQL, and Python3 installed, now we can proceed to install Cardinal.

# Installation

Cardinal has an install script within `bin/` called `install.sh`. Using `install.sh` will allow you to interactively input values used for the Cardinal `.ini` config. The `.ini` config file is very important for both Cardinal and scout. If you're not using `install.sh`, please make sure you fill the `.ini` file correctly and set the `CARDINALCONFIG` environment variable to point to the `.ini` file's location.

In order to better understand the Cardinal installation process, let's break down `install.sh`. The first step `install.sh` performs is gathering basic information about the environment:

~~~
echo "Welcome to the Cardinal Initial Configuration Guide!"
echo -e ""
read -p "Hello, welcome to Cardinal! What is the hostname/IP address of the database for Cardinal? " dbIP
echo -e ""
read -p "Ok, I got it. How about an username for the database? " dbUsername
echo -e ""
read -p "Great! How about a password for the database? " dbPassword
echo -e ""
read -p "Okay, now we need a name for the database. What is the database name? " dbName
echo -e ""
read -p "Okay, now we need to add a Cardinal Admin. What is the desired username for Cardinal? " cardinalUser
echo -e ""
read -p "Okay, now what is the Cardinal Admin's password? " cardinalPass
echo -e ""
read -p "Where do you want to store your MySQL database information? " dbCredDir
echo -e ""
read -p "Where is the location of the scout command directory? " commandDir
echo -e ""
read -p "What is the desired Flask key? (i.e. Securing session data) " flaskKey
~~~

Information such as the MySQL connection info (e.g. IP/hostname, username, and password), desired Cardinal username/password, scout's command directory, and the Flask session key are gathered here.

Each of the values are stored in a variable and then used later for the installation.

After we gather the needed information, we then create a system user called `cardinal`, which will run some `systemd` processes when the application is live:

~~~
# Create a system user called cardinal. The cardinal user is the user which will run our processes
sudo useradd cardinal
~~~

After creating the `cardinal` user, we then create some log files for the Cardinal UI. All of Cardinal's client transactions (e.g. Nginx/uWSGI) and scout runs will report to `cardinal.log`.
`scoutFetcher()` transactions will be reported to `fetcher.log`:

~~~
# Create a log file for Cardinal UI
rm -rf /var/log/cardinal
mkdir -p /var/log/cardinal
touch /var/log/cardinal/cardinal.log
touch /var/log/cardinal/fetcher.log
chown -R cardinal:cardinal /var/log/cardinal
~~~

After creating the Cardinal UI log file, we then create a Python3 venv for cardinal. `install.sh` creates one called `cardinal` and places it within `bin/`:

~~~
# Generate Cardinal venv
sudo python3 -m venv $cardinalBase/cardinal
sudo $cardinalBase/cardinal/bin/pip install -U pip
sudo $cardinalBase/cardinal/bin/pip install -r $cardinalBase/../requirements.txt
sudo $cardinalBase/cardinal/bin/pip install $cardinalBase/../lib/.
~~~

After creating Cardinal's Python3 venv, we then create a socket directory for uWSGI to read/write to:

~~~
# Create a socket directory for uWSGI
rm -rf /var/lib/cardinal
mkdir -p /var/lib/cardinal
chown -R cardinal:cardinal /var/lib/cardinal
~~~

After creating a Cardinal socket directory, we need to make sure `cardinal` can read the values within the `.ini` file:

~~~
# Set permissions on the cardinal.ini file
chown -R cardinal:cardinal $dbCredDir/cardinal.ini
~~~

In order for Cardinal to function, we need a MySQL database for Cardinal to read/write to. The following steps create a MySQL database, using the credentials provided from the first step. We also create a Cardinal admin account and generate an encryption key for sensitive database values:

~~~
# Create the MySQL database for Cardinal. We also want to import the SQL structure too!
mysql -u$dbUsername -p$dbPassword -e "CREATE DATABASE "$dbName""
mysql -u$dbUsername --password=$dbPassword $dbName < ../sql/cardinal.sql
mysql -u$dbUsername --password=$dbPassword mysql -e "update user set plugin='mysql_native_password' where User='root'"
mysql -u$dbUsername --password=$dbPassword mysql -e "update user set authentication_string=password('$dbPassword') where user='root'"
systemctl restart mysql

# Create a Cardinal admin
hashedPass=$(cardinal/bin/python -c 'from werkzeug.security import generate_password_hash; print(generate_password_hash("'$cardinalPass'", "sha256"))')
mysql -u$dbUsername -p$dbPassword $dbName -e "INSERT INTO users (username,password) VALUES ('$cardinalUser','$hashedPass')"

# Generate encryption key
encryptKey=$(cardinal/bin/python -c "from cryptography.fernet import Fernet; print(Fernet.generate_key().decode())")
~~~

Finally, we take the values from the first step and generate a `.ini` file:

~~~
# Create a configuration file based on user input
rm $dbCredDir/cardinal.ini
touch $dbCredDir/cardinal.ini
echo "[cardinal]" >> $dbCredDir/cardinal.ini
echo 'dbserver'=""$dbIP"" >> $dbCredDir/cardinal.ini
echo 'dbuser'=""$dbUsername"" >> $dbCredDir/cardinal.ini
echo 'dbpassword'=""$dbPassword"" >> $dbCredDir/cardinal.ini
echo 'dbname'=""$dbName"" >> $dbCredDir/cardinal.ini
echo 'commanddir'=""$commandDir"" >> $dbCredDir/cardinal.ini
echo 'flaskkey'=""$flaskKey"" >> $dbCredDir/cardinal.ini
echo 'encryptkey'=""$encryptKey"" >> $dbCredDir/cardinal.ini
echo 'commanddebug=off' >> $dbCredDir/cardinal.ini
~~~

If `install.sh` didn't error out and you have a `.ini` file in the appropriate location, congraulations! Cardinal should be configured and ready to launch!

# Nginx Configuration

Before Cardinal can launch, we need to tell Nginx how to read the uWSGI socket. In Cardinal's `conf/` directory, there's a sample Nginx configuration that we can use.

~~~
user  www-data;
worker_processes  1;

#error_log  logs/error.log;
#error_log  logs/error.log  notice;
#error_log  logs/error.log  info;

#pid        logs/nginx.pid;


events {
    worker_connections  1024;
}


http {
    include       /etc/nginx/mime.types;
    default_type  application/octet-stream;

    #log_format  main  '$remote_addr - $remote_user [$time_local] "$request" '
    #                  '$status $body_bytes_sent "$http_referer" '
    #                  '"$http_user_agent" "$http_x_forwarded_for"';

    #access_log  logs/access.log  main;

    sendfile        on;
    #tcp_nopush     on;

    #keepalive_timeout  0;
    keepalive_timeout  65;

    #gzip  on;

    server {
    listen 80;
    server_name <SERVER_NAME_HERE>;

    location / {
        include uwsgi_params;
        uwsgi_pass unix:///var/lib/cardinal/cardinal.sock;
    }
}}
~~~

# `systemd` Configuration

In order for Cardinal to start on system startup, we need to add a `systemd` service. Just like the Nginx configuration, there's a `systemd` config in the `conf/` directory as well:

~~~
[Unit]
Description=Cardinal - Open Source Cisco Access Point Controller
After=network.target

[Service]
User=cardinal
Group=www-data
WorkingDirectory=<PATH_TO_CARDINAL_WEBAPP_DIRECTORY>
Environment="PATH=<PATH_TO_CARDINAL_VIRTUALENV>:/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/games:/usr/local/games:/snap/bin"
Environment="PYTHONPATH=<PATH_TO_SCOUT_LIBRARY>"
ExecStart=<PATH_TO_CARDINAL_VIRTUALENV_UWSGI> --ini wsgi.ini --logto /var/log/cardinal/cardinal.log

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
~~~

Please make sure you fill in the preceding values correctly. Once you have completed the `systemd` configuration, please run `systemctl daemon-reload` to initialize the service.

# Additional Configuration

In order for Cardinal to function with uWSGI, please make sure that `CARDINALCONFIG` is added to the `webapp/wsgi.ini` file:

~~~
[uwsgi]
module=wsgi:Cardinal
master=true
processes=5
socket=/var/lib/cardinal/cardinal.sock
chmod-socket=660
vaccum=true
die-on-term=true
env=CARDINALCONFIG=<PATH_TO_CARDINAL_INI>
~~~

# Cross Your Fingers!

Once you have performed the preceding steps, please check to make sure all of the pillars are functioning properly:

~~~
systemctl status mysql
systemctl status nginx
~~~

Once you have verified that MySQL and Nginx are functioning properly, you can then start Cardinal:

~~~
systemctl start cardinal
~~~

# The Cardinal UI

You should be able to navigate to the Cardinal UI at `http://<CARDINAL_SERVER>`. The login screen should look like this:

![cardinalui](assets/cardinalui.png)

Please try logging in with the username/password specified when running `install.sh` or whatever entries you manually provided to MySQL.
 
You should see the following screen if you're logged in:

![cardinalui2](assets/cardinalui2.png)

Now you can start using Cardinal to manage your Cisco APs!

# Using `scoutFetcher()`

Currently, you can fetch information about your access point via the `Fetch AP Information` tile in Cardinal. If you want to run a fetch
on all of your access points, please utilize `crontab` and set the interval appropriately:

~~~
cd /opt/Cardinal/webapp && PYTHONPATH=/opt/Cardinal/bin/cardinal/lib/python3.5/site-packages/scout /opt/Cardinal/bin/cardinal/bin/python -c "import cardinal; cardinal.system.cardinal_fetch.gatherAllApInfo()"  >> /var/log/cardinal/fetcher.log
~~~

The preceding `crontab` example will call the `scoutFetcherForAll()` function every minute to collect AP information.

At the present time, the operations surrounding `scoutFetcherForAll()` are being improved upon. Using a crontab entry is a workaround for the time being.
