README.md, before:

![](webapp/cardinal/static/img/Cardinal.gif)

![](webapp/cardinal/static/img/cardinalmain.png)
[![Build Status](https://api.travis-ci.org/cardinal-dev/Cardinal.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/cardinal-dev/Cardinal)
[![security: bandit](https://img.shields.io/badge/security-bandit-yellow.svg)](https://github.com/PyCQA/bandit)

<h1>Cardinal</h1>

Cardinal is an open source Cisco access point controller. Cardinal is built on Python and uses `paramiko` to handle the configuration of access points via SSH. In order to use Cardinal, your Cisco AP's must be in autonomous mode (K9W7 IOS) and have SSH enabled.

<h2>Why Cardinal?</h2>
People say that Cardinals represent loved ones who have passed. When Cardinals visit you, they carry love and remembrance. When I developed Cardinal, I thought of one person, in particular, who loved the red bird. I once knew a woman in a nursing home who loved Cardinals. She was exceptionally benevolent and always happy. Unfortunately, she passed away in 2013.
In her memory, I decided to name the project Cardinal. I intend to post more about my road to developing Cardinal. Cardinal is still in-development to this day. Cardinal definitely needs work! As I build Cardinal, I learn more about programming and application development. I hope that one day Cardinal becomes an open source alternative to the Cisco WLC.<br>
<br>

Commit message:

cardinal: deprecation notice
goodbye (for now)

README.md, after:

![](webapp/cardinal/frontend/src/img/Cardinal.gif)

![](webapp/cardinal/frontend/src/img/cardinalmain.png)
[![security: bandit](https://img.shields.io/badge/security-bandit-yellow.svg)](https://github.com/PyCQA/bandit)

<h1>Cardinal</h1>

Cardinal is an open source Cisco access point controller. Cardinal is built on Python and uses `paramiko` to handle the configuration of access points via SSH. In order to use Cardinal, your Cisco AP's must be in autonomous mode (K9W7 IOS) and have SSH enabled.

<h2>Deprecation Notice</h2>
Starting April 9th, 2023, Cardinal development will no longer continue. If anyone wants to continue development, please feel free to fork this repo, along with the repo for scout. I'm going to merge all of the latest dependency PRs before archiving. The latest source code is essentially v3.0, with some things missing. Thank you to everyone who contributed over the years! Overall, I think I accomplished my goal of creating an open source Cisco access point controller.
